Welcome to AggieTracks! AggieTracks is an application for Texas A&M University URSC 493 Transportation Research Project Travel Survey. Please read the following information to decide whether you want to participate in this survey or not. If you are willing to proceed, click PROCEED button below, and you will be directed to a user information page where you can enter your personal details.

Introduction

The purpose of this form is to provide you (as a prospective research study participant) information that may affect your decision as to whether or not to participate in this research.
You have been asked to participate in a research study to determine the effect TAMU students have on traffic flow in Bryan/College Station. The purpose of this study is to observe and analyze student movement on and off campus in order to supplement traffic modeling by the Bryan-College Station Metropolitan Planning Organization (BCSMPO). Our hope is that with these data, better transportation planning can be made for future generations of Aggies. You were selected to be a possible participant because you are a TAMU student (graduate or undergraduate) who lives either on or off campus. This study is in partnership with the BCSMPO.

What will I be asked to do?

If you agree to participate in this study, you will be asked to document your travel on, around, and off campus. This study will take two days to complete. On each day you will document your travel in sequential order (from waking up to going to bed). The survey can be done either on a smartphone or with a paper survey form.

What are the risks involved in this study?

The risks associated with this study are minimal, and are not greater than risks ordinarily encountered in daily life.

What are the possible benefits of this study?

You will receive no other direct benefit from participating in this study; however the possible benefit to society is improved traffic flow in and around the university. In addition, traffic planners in college towns around the country will benefit from the increased knowledge and understanding of student travel behavior.

Will I be compensated for participating?

Five gift cards for $100 each will be awarded to randomly selected participants. If you wish to enter the raffle for the gift cards, add your name and phone number to the paper survey or fill in the contact information section of the smartphone survey. If you wish to particpate in the survey without entering the raffle you may do so.

Do I have to participate?

No.  Your participation is voluntary.  You may decide not to participate or withdraw at any time without your current or future relations with Texas A&M University or the Bryan-College Station Metropolitan Planning Organization being affected.

Who will know about my participation in this research study?

This study is confidential and the records of this study will be kept private.  No identifiers linking you to this study will be included in any sort of report that might be published.  Research records will be stored securely and only the survey administrators will have access to the records. When the raffle is finished, all contact information will be removed from the data and the original records will be destroyed.

Whom do I contact with questions about the research?

If you have questions regarding this study, you may contact Dr. Carla Prater at 979-862-3970, email address  HYPERLINK "mailto:Carla@archone.tamu.edu" Carla@archone.tamu.edu or Dr. Forster Ndubisi, 979-845-1019,  HYPERLINK "mailto:fndubisi@arch.tamu.edu" fndubisi@arch.tamu.edu.

Whom do I contact about my rights as a research participant?

This research study has been reviewed by the Human Subjects’ Protection Program and/or the Institutional Review Board at Texas A&M University.  For research-related problems or questions regarding your rights as a research participant, you can contact these offices at (979)458-4067 or  HYPERLINK "mailto:irb@tamu.edu" irb@tamu.edu.

Participation

Please be sure you have read the above information, asked questions and received answers to your satisfaction.  If you would like to be in the study:

Use the paper survey form to document your travel on two days, then drop the completed survey off at Langford Architecture Center C 106.

OR

Use the Cycletraks app for Iphone or Android phones to document your travel behavior for two days. The app can be downloaded at the Apple or Android app store.